Cool, so
we have this grid challenge though, right,
where I wanna build something like this,
right?
Which I can do, and I'll kind of
show you some of the code, but
this is kind of the point of we
can use this arbitrary value and
it'll show you how powerful
some of these pieces are.
But then that trade off of, I'm not always
sure that I want to do all these things
in Tailwind and that's okay, because you
know what talent is at the end of the day?
It's just a bunch of utility classes and
all your CSS still works.
It's not like you've opted into some
framework where you can only use Tailwind.
You can opt out and like we saw at
the very beginning, you can get
that theme function and grab any part of
the theme you want in your regular CSS.
You still get all the purging,
if you used layers and
stuff along those lines,
you get all of the pieces.
And you can both, I think, Yehuda Katz
said it about Ember at one point,
a good framework should always push and
guide you in the right direction,
and then give you an escape hatch
that is easy when you need it.
I think Tailwind does
a very good job with that.
So what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna look at a little piece of how
to put something like this together,
and then we are going to look at
just a few other kind of useful
tricks that I think are kinda nice.
We actually accidentally looked at
aspect ratio already as a fun thing, but
we'll look at a few more
of these little ones.
We can talk about animations if you want
or any questions that come after that.
But I kinda wanna just look at how to
put together a layout like this so
you can kind of see where
the advantages and disadvantages are.
And then a bunch of other kind of
potpourri of tricks, and then we'll kind
of pull the train into the station and
answer any kind of questions or any kind
of thoughts or ideas that we might pull
out and kind of see in this place as well.
Cool, so let's take a look at how would
we go about doing something like this?
I'll grab a fresh playground real quick.
And what we can even do is we can say,
we can make some divs.
And what we'll do is we'll grab,
we'll call this one the header,
we'll call this one the,
let's even pretend that we're
gonna use semantic HTML here.
We'll make the sidebar as a NAV,
that seems legit.
It's not a real app, so
I don't really know what the right
semantic meaning is for the sidebar.
We'll just call the main
section a section,
main content, And we'll add a footer.
That seems good, right?
Awesome, sweet.
And we'll put it all inside of a main,
cuz we're gonna need
something to have the grid.
And I think looking at this in
context will make a little more sense
than me poking a bunch of buttons in
a tool, but pull request accepted, too.
Cool, cool, cool, so we've got that.
The other thing we're gonna do real
quick is we're going to say that for
our first business right now,
this main section,
one of the ones we didn't talk about,
we saw the width full and height full.
The other one that Tailwind gives you
is width screen and height screen,
which are the view widths and
view heights, so we've got that.
I don't want this responsive view anymore.
There, thank you, cool, cool, cool.
And then what we'll do is we'll say,
class,
It's time for
red 300 to make its appearance.
Cool, and we'll say for
now on the side, I'm thinking green.
I like that, I like the 100 on this one.
Nope, it's not enough, there we go.
And we'll pull in, I'm thinking yellow.
And everything that you can do in regular
CSS, you can jam into utility class.
Again, I will leave it as an exercise
to the reader if you want to.
I will say, sometimes my
decisions are made as the person
who runs the team rather than the person,
and so I am of the like,
if I let people start escape
hashing all the time,
we will have a mess that I won't be
able to change themes on and stuff.
So by default is to use utility classes,
but even I will,
in a PR, it'd be like, okay,
this makes total sense.
Cool, I gotta add a shade to
the other one in a second,
blue, 200 for the footer.
So I want to get a layout
like I had before.
So let's go ahead and let's just start by,
what happens if I just throw on grid,
right?
Cool, all right,
we're kind of getting there.
I'm gonna take that margin off the body,
cool.
All right, I'm getting there,
not totally there.
So we could do stuff like,
I forgot to show you colspan so
we'll do that, too, we can say it has two.
That will do it, right, but you can see,
getting to those various where you
can put the lines in CSS grid,
definitely Tailwind out of
the box is not in my experience.
If somebody can slide into my DMs later
and tell me I'm wrong, in my experience,
it is great for the, I wanna lay
out a bunch of items, not for like,
I want to kind of build that kind
of grid layout for the page.
And you can do a bunch of that stuff,
right?
I could say something like,
was kind of hard, but I'll just show you.
I could say something like, it's got
ones that remind me of tables, right?
Colspan2, I could say something like,
hey, go back.
It's because I dismissed the,
I'm so excited,
span two columns, There we go.
And I could make the footer technically,
All right,
so you can do stuff like that but it's
when you want to move a lot of the a lot
of the lines around instead
of just a very even grid,
like the ones in town with a very good,
very even grid.
You can do some stuff in here as well,
and I will show you and it will be great.
So we can go ahead and
instead of the Cols2,
I'm gonna do,
I believe the grid template, right?
And I think I can do it.
I'm doing this from memory real quick.
Let's do 1, 1fr, I can type,
auto or something like that,
nope, hold on real quick.
All right, we want actually the grid
rows in this case, cool, grid rows.
All right, so that's one fractional
unit auto, that's a little much there.
We'll start with that and we'll say, you
can see that I'm using the underscores.
These are the same, if you were writing
CSS you would put these with a space,
right, and that's effective.
But we can actually,
I wonder if it shows you that super
clearly in the generated CSS or
if I gotta inspect an element here.
Yeah, I'm not I'm not doing that.
But you can actually see what comes out,
but
we can take a look at
the inspector over here.
Effectively, if you look at
the class it's generating,
you can see those underscores make spaces,
right?
So my grid template rose that
is what it comes out to,
you can decide if that makes you happy or
not, right?
I'm here to show you,
you can decide, whether or
not you like it is up to you in this case.
So we could say, let's make this instead,
this one fraction, one fractional unit.
Okay, we're getting there, six maybe.
Yeah, right, so we have that in place, and
then we also need to do
the grid calls where we can
also put in that arbitrary value.
Cuz again, if you just put that one, the
two or three, you're gonna get even ones.
If you want one that's a thinner sidebar,
you need to say like, okay, the first
column is about this wide, and then either
auto or take up the rest of the space.
So I'm gonna say 1fr, and we'll start with
auto, and we'll see what that gives us,
and I think it's gonna give me
something I don't really want.
Yep, that's the opposite
of what I want almost.
And maybe I flipped that and that is what
I want, but I could also say that this may
be six fractional units and all fractional
unit is, is six out of seven, right?
You add them all up and
that's where you go.
That's a little small and
so you can adjust it and
you can do all the min max stuff.
You can put it all in
those utility class names.
Again, I'm not gonna tell you that
you should, I do it, I choose to.
If you're like, nah, this is a bridge
too far, I get it, that's cool, too.
But actually, it is nice because
you know what I can do next?
I could say that this should only
happen at that small viewport, right?
Cool, but originally what it should do is,
I'm pretty sure it's gonna get angry with
me with those call spans in a second, but
yeah, so I gotta say that
these only happen at small 2.
And what's nice is, so now, theoretically,
and again, I could tweak this a little bit
more, but theoretically at the smallest
viewport, they're stacked in a column.
As we get bigger,
we get the various different layouts, and
I don't write a bunch of media queries.
So you pay the cost of, good luck
explaining that during code review, right?
But generally speaking, you get a lot
of the responsive breakpoints very
powerfully and very easily, and
get it all kind of laid out nicely.
And so
we could decide that instead of one,
we want to have, we'll say,
rows where we do something like,
1fr and then actually make this 3,
1fr, let's make this 5,
it's got to be underscores.
Right, okay, it needs a little bit of
adjustment, we'll make that maybe a 2.
And so now you get the kind of
fully responsive grid layouts,
you don't think about it.
And once you have it set up,
it's actually pretty elegant.
I mean, for the various different
viewports, how you want it to change
layout, you can change the call spans,
you can change the order, right?
If I wanna say that,
okay at the small one,
Let's see, I'm doing that from memory,
now I'm winging it.
Yeah, I've gotta play around
with the order a little bit.
But you can, theoretically, set up all the
breakpoints, have your layouts in place.
It does take a little bit
of time to get right, but
the integration with the breakpoints is
what I think makes it worth it, right?
But I am not going to be the one
that tells you, it's the way it is,
this is the way.
I'm gonna say, there are some trade-offs
where I think it's worth it for
a lot of the clarity in this and
the ability to adjust it and to iterate.
I get it that that syntax makes
everyone's feelings hurt.
I think that both can be
true at the same time.
Clear off your afternoon,
sit down with the docs and
you get it to the point where you want
it and then you mostly have it in place.
It's one of those things, you do it
once and it kind of works out, but
the I think the potential is there and
it's worth it.